
How do you design an application with JMS messaging?


Connection
Provides access to the underlying transport, and is used to create Sessions.
Session
Provides a context for producing and consuming messages, including the methods used to create MessageProducers and MessageConsumers.
MessageProducer
Used to send messages.
MessageConsumer
Used to receive messages.
How do you handle exception in JMS consumers and how to you recover?
The root class for exceptions thrown by JMS API methods is JMSException. 
Catching JMSException provides a generic way of handling all exceptions related to the JMS API.
How do you implement LRU or MRU cache?
Least Recently Used (LRU): This cache algorithm keeps recently used items near the top of cache. 
Whenever a new item is accessed, the LRU places it at the top of the cache. 
When the cache limit has been reached, items that have been accessed
 less recently will be removed starting from the bottom of the cache. 
This can be an expensive algorithm to use, as it needs to keep "age bits" that show exactly when the item was accessed.
 In addition, when a LRU cache algorithm deletes an item, the "age bit" changes on all the other items.

Most Recently Used (MRU): This cache algorithm removes the most recently used items first. A MRU algorithm is good in situations 
in which the older an item is, the more likely it is to be accessed.
How would you implement Executor Service?
ThreadPoolExecutor provides an extension point for afterExecution where you can put the job back at the end of the queue.

Describe singleton design pattern – how would you implement?
Ensure a class has only one instance, and provide a global point of access to it.
Encapsulated "just-in-time initialization" or "initialization on first use".


Describe properties of Java String.
Immutable Java String

Java String is a immutable object. For an immutable object you cannot modify any of its attribute’s values. Once you have created a java
 String object it cannot be modified to some other object or a different String. 
References to a java String instance is mutable.

Java String Instantiation

In continuation with above discussion of immutability of java String 
we shall see how that property is used for instantiating a Sting instance. JVM maintains a memory pool for String.